1.1.25 Use mathematical induction to prove that Euclid’s algorithm computes the
greatest common divisor of any pair of non-negative integers p and q.

p = dq + r  
Let's prove that gcd(p, q) = gcd(q, r)  
Let m = gcd(p, q) and n = gcd(q, r)  
First, we will prove that m also divides both q and r.  
If this is the case, m would be <= gcd(q, r) because n = gcd(q, r).  
m divides p and m divides q:  
p = ma and q = mb  
r = p - dq  
r = ma - mbq  
r = m(a - bq)  
This means m divides r.  
Since m divides q and m divides r, m <= gcd(q, r).  
On another hand, n divides q and n divides r:  
q = nx and r = ny  
Since p = dq + r, n also divides p:  
p = dnx + ny = n(dx + y)  
So n divides p and n divides q.  
Hence, n <= gcd(p, q) because m = gcd(p, q).  
We got m <= n and n <= m.  
Hence, m = n and gcd(p, q) = gcd(q, r). 

http://www.math.lsa.umich.edu/~jchw/2015Math110Material/Homework1-Math110-W2015-Solutions.pdf  
Complete our proof that the Euclidean algorithm computes the gcd, by showing for a, b, q, r in Z with  
a = bq + r then gcd(a, b) = gcd(b, r).  
Hint: Show that any common divisor of a and b is also a common divisor of b and r, and vice versa. If  
the set of common divisors of a and b is the same as the set of common divisors of b and r, then both  
must have the same greatest common divisor.  
Solution: As the hint suggests, we will show that the set of common divisors for a and b is the same  
as the set of common divisors of b and r.  
Suppose that an integer n divides both a and b. The hypothesis n divides a and b implies there are  
integers s and t such that a = ns and b = nt. Then  
r = a - bq = ns - ntq = n(s - tq).  
Therefore n|r.  
Suppose that n divides b and r. Then there are s and t with b = sn and r = tn. Substituting  
a = bq + r = snq + tn = n(sq + t)  
which means that n divides a.

https://www.khanacademy.org/computing/computer-science/cryptography/modarithmetic/a/the-euclidean-algorithm  
